---
picto:
  source: person
  status: empty
---

# Approaching FedRAMP 20x Assessments

Aspects of 20x reflect a paradigm shift. As an assessor you too will need to adjust your approach.

❗It’s best not to assume typical contracts for point-in-time assessments are also suitable for 20x assessments. A 20x assessment may require different technical skills, be more collaborative and the process may be more iterative and variable in scope.

Flexibility and Transparency
20x moves away from compelling providers to change what they are doing to meet security requirements, some of which might actually be a poor fit (e.g. expensive with little security benefit or even worsen the security posture). 20x Key Security Indicators (KSIs) are non-prescriptive. What is key is transparency when conveying the “how”,  “what” and “why”, about what is being done or not done and based on what makes sense for the Provider’s unique setup and business needs.

ℹ️ Plan to include information about any security risks that would benefit stakeholders who are considering the Provider’s cloud offering from their vantage point.


Related to transparency is the 20x objective that certification data is sufficient for agency customers to make well informed, risk-based decisions within a reasonable amount of time. Major issues there could actually hold up issuance of a certification. So coordinate with the Provider to ensure that the data you both provide, when combined and reviewed by a risk executive and their subject matter expert(s), fulfills this goal.
Assessing Automated Assessment
With 20x, there is a collaborative shift in the assessment process. The assessment begins when the Provider designs and implements automated validations to continuously self-assess their security capabilities. Your role is to in turn validate the provider-designed automated checks. This includes ensuring the checks are:
Producing the Provider's intended outcome.
Complete, accurate, and confirmed to be reliable every time they run.

Reporting changes too, from manually filling-in standard templates and collecting snapshots to automatically generating machine-readable and human-readable data and outputs (e.g. dashboards).

ℹ️ Even with the emphasis on automated validation, providers may not have automated checks for everything. So you may need to apply a more traditional approach for a small portion of the assessment.

Specialized Skills You’ll Need
Because automated checks are designed by the Provider, you will need to make sure you have the necessary experience and skills to effectively validate the full life-cycle of those checks (e.g. from a configuration check, to the logic applied for analysing the outcome, and then to the reported status results). That will mean having skills to do deeper technical analysis, such as code review. What skills and experience you need will be based on the Provider’s unique build.
